Cuz, I wonder where is that
line of being authentic but
staying positive, like for
an engineer trying to
get the first-time role.
Cuz to be honest, it is like all doom and
gloom, but nobody, you can only say it.
Or hear it for so long before it's like,
yeah, everybody knows that, and
it does suck, but okay [LAUGH].
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yeah,
it's interesting you asked that because I
definitely know what you're talking about,
especially in public platforms.
When engineers feel really,
really frustrated, and
then it turns into anger
at their situation.
They talk about it with
that full anger and
on public platforms like LinkedIn,
and it doesn't reflect well, right?
It's really bad,
I do not suggest you do that [LAUGH].
So, don't do that in public platforms but
I think being authentic doesn't
mean fully ranting about it.
But you could see if someone
wanted to hear a bit more,
I guess you could open up
if they're giving you clues
that they do want to hear about it, right?
Like how tough.
>> Tom: [LAUGH]
>> Francesca Sadikin: Is not an emotion,
[LAUGH] I'd love to
hear a little bit more.
So, I think you can wait for
the other person's cues to see if they do
want to hear a little bit more about you.
It's a two-way street, yeah.
>> Tom: Okay.
>> Francesca Sadikin: What do you think,
think about that?
How was this exercise for you guys?
I know it was a little hard.
>> Tom: I enjoyed the communication
exercise more than I initially thought
I would.
But now I'm thinking about
how I'll remember to try and
get to the emotions and try and get
the person to talk about their feelings.
When I'm in the moment and
in a conversation which is like all
new habits that we try and pick up but
do you have any tips for that?
>> Speaker 2: You got an acronym?
>> Tom: [LAUGH].
>> Francesca Sadikin: I just remember
my glacier, [LAUGH], diagram just like
emotions deep, but I think when you
feel like you've connected with someone,
and then you have a conversation
with somebody else, and
it's all about what, what, what, what?
You'll feel it,
you can feel it, you're like,
I don't feel like I'm actually
getting to know this person [LAUGH].
Like I don't actually know who this person
is, and I think when you sense that inside
of yourself, that's your clue to wait,
what was I am supposed to ask about again?
Let me see if I can try to
deepen it a little bit.
Just turn the conversation
a little deeper.
>> Tom: And I guess when I'm in a
conversation where it's just, what, what,
what, I run out of what's.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yeah, yeah, exactly.
>> Tom: Sometimes it's pretty quick,
you run on conversation just ends.
But maybe if I can see that
as the opportunity to start
asking the why, and
then the feeling, yeah.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Going from wise to
emotions will help you a little bit, yeah.
>> Tom: Yeah.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yeah, go ahead.
>> Speaker 2: I have my own personal
anecdote when it comes to his question
about realism, or
pessimism versus optimism.
I feel I struggle with this all the time,
so what I end up doing is I go to what I'd
say, like the pit of despair, which is the
worst possible thing that could happen.
And I just sit with that and what lessons
can I draw from that, what's the plan?
If this horrible thing actually happened,
what would be the plan?
And somehow putting a plan in place helps
me then turn to the positive and say,
okay, if I work really hard
day after day after day,
then maybe these positive
things can happen.
But they don't happen if I don't, but
somehow putting the plan in place for
the negative side helps
me sort of ground that.
Okay, I do have an option if
these bad things do happen,
I do have things that I can do.
And the reality is it never goes
usually to the worst-case scenario,
but I think it's like stoicism or
something, you have to be realistic
that bad things can happen.
And you have to plan for
them accordingly, but if they don't,
obviously you can keep
going towards the positive,
going towards the things that
could potentially happen.
If you work hard at it and I think those
positive things do end up happening,
it just usually takes a lot
longer than you think.
And so, you do have to have a realistic
plan in place to keep working
towards those bigger things.
So, I don't know if that helps at all,
but you're sitting with the bad thing,
drawing a plan, okay?
But then pursuing the positive things
day to day, you're not dwelling on or
not worried about it every
single night going to bed.
That makes sense, I don't know.
>> Tom: And speaking on that I can
relate to sometimes I'm just instantly
honest with people, and so sometimes
people will just ask how's it going.
And sometimes I might just
offer something that's
very real and they weren't ready for that.
So, I'm trying to suss that out
now because I wanna be genuine and
sometimes I'm going through a hard time.
But sometimes people, they aren't
interested, they just want to hear, good,
and it's just kind of a cordial,
friendly thing.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Well, then you'll
know now that you're like, well,
not with this person [LAUGH].
>> Tom: Yeah [LAUGH].
>> Speaker 2: They learn their lesson.
>> Tom: [LAUGH]
>> Francesca Sadikin: So, we covered a lot
today, so we're gonna wrap up and
reflect on the key takeaways overall.
We started by discussing how to prepare
effectively as software engineers,
from delivering quickly writing
maintainable code and using test.
We also touched on handling task execution
problems and preparing for promotions.
But hopefully, you saw that preparational
loan is not enough, we also talked about
seizing opportunities to accelerate your
growth by building relationships of trust.
By caring about others and
understanding how your work impacts them,
you become a more effective engineer.
So, as we conclude today, remember,
combining thorough preparation with
intentional relationship building,
with all of this,
you can now truly own your success.
It's not just about the technical
skills as a software engineer.
Adding empathy and
care really makes us truly impactful and
successful as software developers.
Thank you for going on this journey
with me, it's been a pleasure.
>> [APPLAUSE]